In the previous video, we already configure
ospf on 2 router.
Next in this video, we are going to add 1 new router to the topology.
Let’s just start, import 1 new router, let’s
say the name is Router 3, let’s also import new pc.
Next, we need to connecting router 2 and router 3,
but before that,
we need to add new interface on router 2.
Let’s save the configuration, go to physical,
shutdown the router, add new interface,
and then turn on the router again.
Now let’s connecting router 2 and router 3.
And also connecting router 3 and pc 3.
Next, for ip addressing, here the ip address
will be 10.20.20.1, but here let’s use prefix /30.
For router 3, the ip address will be 10.20.20.2/30,
and router 3 that connected to pc 3,
the ip address will be 192.168.3.1/24.
Okay now let’s start the ip address configuration,
let’s start with router 2, enable,
configure terminal, here the ip address of fa1/0 will
be 10.20.20.1/30,
So here interface fa1/0, no shutdown, and
then the ip address is 10.20.20.1
and for prefix /30, the subnetmask is 255.255.255.252.
We have done on router 2, next let’s configure
router 3, no, enable, configure terminal,
let’s configure fa0/0 first, so interface fa0/0,
no shutdown, and then the ip address is 10.20.20.2
255.255.255.252.
Next for fa0/1, the ip address will be 192.168.3.1/24,
so here interface fa0/1, no shutdown,
ip address 192.168.3.1 255.255.255.0.
Okay now we have done configuring ip address
on router 2 and router 3.
Last, let’s configure the ip address of pc 3.
The ip address is 192.168.3.2 and the gateway
is 192.168.3.1
Okay, so now we have done add 1 new router
to the topology.
I think enough for this video.
In the next video we are going to configure ospf so pc 1, pc 2, and pc 3 will able to communicate each others.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.